# LAB: Getting Started with Compute Engine 

# Objectives

In this lab, you will learn how to perform the following tasks:

   - Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console.

   - Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the gcloud command-line interface.

   - Connect between the two instances.

## Steps:

1. Create a virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console

  gcloud compute instances create "my-vm-1" --machine-type "n1-standard-1" --image-project "debian-cloud"  --image "debian-9-stretch-v20190213"  --subnet "default"
--tags http

 gcloud component firewall-rules create allow-http --action=allow --destination=INGRESS --rules=http:80 --target-tags=http

2.  Create a virtual machine using the gcloud command-line interface

   gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-b

   gcloud  compute instances create my-vm-2 --machine-type "n1-standard-1" --image-project "debian-cloud" --image "debian-9-streach-v2020315" --subnet "debian" --tags http.


3.  Connect between the two instances.

 a. Use the ping command to confirm that my-vm-2 can reach my-vm-1 over the other network.

  - Connect to vm-2:

    gcloud ssh my-vm-2

  - Ping my-vm-1 to my-vm-2:

     ping -c  4 my-vm-1

  - Use the ssh command to command prompt on my-vm-1 to my-vm-2:

    ssh my-vm-1

  - At the command prompt on my-vm-1, install the nginx web server:

     sudo apt-get install Nginx-light-y

  - Use nano text editor for message to add a custom image to the homepage server:

       sudo nano /var/www/html/index.nginx-debian.html

  - Add this text, and replace it with YOUR_NAME:

        Hi from Awet

  - Exit from the the text editor and confirm that the web server is serving the application a new page. At the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command

        curl http://localhost/

  - Result:

   The response will be the HTML source of the web server's home page, including your line of custom text.

  - To exit the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command:

   exit

  - Confirm that my-vm-2 can reach my-vm-1 on the web server, at the command prompt on my-vm-2, execute this command

    curl http://my-vm-1/

b. Get my external IP of my-vm-1 instance from this command:

   gcloud compute instance --list us-central1-a

c. Paste the copied IP address of my-vm-1 into a new browser tab and hit Enter

    gcloud compute instance --list us-central1-a
    
  - Result: you will see yoour webserver's Home-page, including your custom text.
